we want to take you now live to Geneva
where Philip lazarini the commissioner
general of the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees unra is speaking and updating
uh the Press there about the latest
developments on the ground sh with the m
States and also to comment on the review
the Kine Kon report and maybe also a
little update on the o us
report um when when it comes to the
situation on the ground um I mean
basically our colleagues are telling us
that uh there is a extraordinary deep
anxiety prevailing right now in Gaza
because the question uh everybody ask is
whether yes or not there will be a
military offensive and the likelihood of
a military offensive will all depend uh
whether or not a cire deal will be
reached uh this week um just to let you
know that people have not yet been asked
to evacuate from Rafa but there is a
sense that if there is no deal this week
that this can happen at any time my
colleague on the ground are also uh
describing uh basically a a constant I
would say a constant state of trauma
among the people and basically they came
with a new acronym we are not talking
anymore about uh
PTSD but we are more talking about the
ctsd which would mean constant traumatic
stress disorder prevailing in the Gaza
Strip and obviously this is not uh too
surprising uh this morning I commented
also on the latest development in the
north where we are engage in race
against the clock to reverse in fact the
spreading hung and the looming famine
especially in the northern part the good
news is that my colleagues have reported
that there is more food available in the
market so increased Ava
availability but it is still does not
mean that the food is accessible just
because there is absolutely no cash
circulating in the northern part of the
Gaza Strip we believe that much more
needs to be done it is true that there
have been more Supply entering during
the month of April but this is still far
from enough to reserve or to to reverse
the negative Trend we have seen I have
also mentioned this morning when I met
the uh member states um the uh issue
about the blame game you might have
heard between the Israeli uh uh
Authority many the Kat and the United
Nation on one hand isra saying what we
are providing all the necessary food the
problem is is on the side of the United
Nation let me just give you few facts
regarding this first this is not true
and this is not our reading uh look at
um starting with unoa whenever we ask
for a convoy going from the South to to
the north our convoys are systematically
denied so we still have no access
whenever a permission is given to
deliver anywhere else in the strep the
process is
always complicated and very uh
cumbersome uh when it comes to enter
into Gaza we have this system of
offloading downloading offloading
downloading the trucks which makes
things extraordinary uh difficult also
um we have operating hours of the
crossing which vary from one day to
another one with limited number of hours
where we can operate and uh most of the
time uh the many times a week we have
also the crossing being closed because
they just dumping uh DET release the
theis or or dumping sometimes bodies who
have been take who have been taken to
Israel and back to the Gaza street now
talking about um the um the detes I have
also briefed the member State about the
report we have issued about a week ago
um it was the first time that in fact un
has released such a report in my meeting
this morning I have reminded that uh of
course hostages are still in captivity
with the Hamas and that both the
Secretary General myself but other un
officer keep asking for the
unconditional and immediate release of
the hostages but I have also shared this
morning our deep concern regarding the
gazin detained by the Israeli Security
Forces um the report you have seen uh
recently has been based on number of
testimonies collected by the agency Why
by the agency because we are at the
Crossing we are at K Shalom because we
are mining the main logistical H at the
entry of Gaza and these people basically
have been released at this place and
according to the test testimonies that
we have collected um people have told us
that they are routinely R when they were
arrested they were routinely rounded up
stripped to the underwear and loaded
into trucks blindfolded and borned most
of the time once arrested these detes
remain Inc communic and they are
subjected to shocking inum treatment
among the IM inum treatment they have
described to us water boing water
boarding severe victims attacked by dogs
being forced to hold stress position for
hours sometimes 12 hours 24 hours and
being forced to wear diaper instead of
accessing uh the toilet and among the
detainers who have been relieved we had
also a number of un staff and they have
also reported to us that while under
interrogation they were asked a lot of
question about the work with un and B
basically also being pressured to
that the agency is politically
Affiliated in the Gaza Strip this
morning I have also highlighted the fact
that U as you know the agency is under a
lot of strain they are called for the
agency to be uh
dismantled uh but the agency also has
been uh targeted over the last six uh
seven months um in in in in Gaza uh uh
where both uh our staff but also our
premises as well as our operation I just
reminded that since the beginning of the
war we have
182 staff member now who have been
killed more than 160 premises which have
been uh damaged uh or totally destroyed
and most of these premises were
Sheltering a displaced people and more
than 400 people have been killed in
these premises uh we have also seen that
whenever we vacated premises mainly in
the north of the Gaza Street uh they
have been then used for military uh
purposes uh we have uh also heard about
the allegation regarding tunel uh
underneath some of our premises and
basically I was calling the member state
to make sure that at the end of the war
once we have a ceas fire that we have
also the ne that we put in place an
investig independent investigation uh to
look into this blatant disregard of the
United Nation in order to avoid that
this becomes also in the future uh the
new uh standard I also briefed uh this
morning about where we stand on the oios
report but in fact we have been briefed
by Stefan durich I think on on on Friday
just to reiterate what he has said we
started with 12 allegations if you're
just joining us on Al jazer we're just
listening there to Philip lazarini the
commissioner general of the UN Agency
for Palestinian refugees unra who
briefing reporters uh in Geneva about
the latest developments on the in Gaza
uh he talked about the the situation uh
in Gaza saying there's deep anxiety
prevailing uh because everyone is
worried about an Israeli military
offensive on Rafa in the southern part
of the Gaza STP he said people have not
been told to evacuate yet from Rafa but
the fear is that if there is no
ceasefire deal in the coming days then
uh the ground invasion of Rafa by
Israeli forces will happen on the
humanitarian situation he said it was a
race against
the clock to reverse hunger and famine
uh more food is available he said on the
market but it's not accessible because
there's no cash circulating uh
especially in the northern part of the
strip he said more aid supplies had
entered the Gaza Strip in April but it's
far from enough uh he also talked about
the gross human rights violations
against detainees Palestinian detainees
recently released by Israel and on unra
he said the agency is under a lot of
strain uh the agency has been targ in
Gaza its remises and operations targeted
by the Israeli forces again uh the
commissioner of the uh UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees Philip lazarini
speaking there in
Geneva make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer